\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 FEATURES:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Made a brand new main menu and hangar screen.

Added many more blue options to events, and heavily altered many to be more interesting or align with the new lore rewrites.

Added icons to all applicable enemy ships, warning you about their augments or other mechanics.

Reworked stores. They now guaruntee weapons and usually crew as well. Items offered and probabilities of certain categories appearing is based on the faction. Systems are now broken up into two separate categories.

Added Outcast Controlled Sectors, Outcast Badlands, and the Leech Capital.

Sylvan now runs from the fleet and can't be overtake in sector 8.

Certain types of stores can now spawn on nebula beacons.

Added Leah the Beam Master.

Added Callie the Calculator.

Added new unlock quests for the Kestrel, Zoltan, Brood, Guild, Mantis, Suzerain, and Bishop Cruisers. Greatly modified the quests for the Crystal and Spider Cruisers.

Quests can now spawn in nebulas and s8. You can also now reroute to a different sector before the last stand.

Restructured Sylvan events internally. Extreme Sylvan no longer charges to visit him, but gives greatly reduced conversion rates for resources. Combat augments can now be used against him. Increased the cooldown of his lasers by 1 second.

Important quest beacons that are sector specific no longer spawn in the next sector (like the Mantis Hive or Orchid Grand Gardens).

Added the Federation Database, which acts as a sort of "tutorial" option that opens up more (information only) options in events.

Added the new page of unique crew ships. Each ship is dedicated to one of the various unique crew found in MV.

Added the Outcast and SSLG Cruisers.

Added a new page of returning vanilla ships, as close to their original versions as possible.

Added 4 new MV Traveler bosses (Kestrel B, Fed B, Orchid B, Crystal C) and their related MV loot drops.

Added the Aether upgrade menu.

Added the augments; Improved Armories, Advanced Ventilation, Disruption Field, and Magnetic Payload.

Added Leech Crew Labs.

Performance upgrades now tell you how many you have already installed when not maxed.

Added several new page 14 ships.

Added the secondary lab upgrades; Hippocratic Oath, Field Training, Spiritual Abandonment, Claw Slash, Robotic Mimickry, Artificial Radiency, Cybernetic Rehabilitation, and Homeland Defender.

Sylvan, Obelisks, Peacekeepers, and the MFK Flagship now all use custom energy shield augments. Various relevant player cruisers also use these.

Added the Assault toggle drone.

Crew labs can now impact whether certain crew types trigger blue options.

Added KoN Super Elite crew.

Auto ships now use the new emancipation grid augment. (not to be confused with the emancipation grills internal upgrade)

Added Malforms (only one can be obtained at the moment).

Added the Purifier Mk II, sprite courtesy of BetelgeuseBear.

Added elite defeat scenarios for the factions that were missing them.

Added new stations and other various generic enemies.

Renamed the Reverse Recycler and added it to stores. Changed the effect slightly.

Added the Serenity, Hektar, Augmented, and Lost Sun music tracks. Also updated Leech and Crystal tracks.

Added new store events.

Added the Accuracy Attribute Module.

Modified the Flagship power surges. They now scale with difficulty. The MFK Flagship now also has power surges.

Added more splash text.

Added new sound effects for various weapons.

You can now cancel coord warps.

Breach chance is now adjusted to account for fire chance on the weapon stat display.

Added new projectile sprites for many weapons.

Attacking transports for certain factions now raises notoriety.

Added many missing clone cannon variants.

Migrated the sector reroutes to a new sub menu for better optimization.

Reorganized and restructured several files.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 CHANGES:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Resprited the entirety of the Coalition ships, and added many more elites.

Modified the text and options for the Haynes event to make it more intuitive for players.

Resprited all of the vanilla weapons to have better shading and fix some animation errors.

You can no longer trap the fleet without a minelauncher. Laying minefields raises "general" notoriety after doing it too many times. Different minelaunchers lay traps more or less efficiently.

Changed unlock descriptions to not reveal the name of secret cruisers. Also changed many unlocks for B/Cs to be consistent.

Reworked the introducory lore section and implemented the Federation Database to help new players.

Resprited and reworked the Lost Sun Cruisers.

Resprited Lanius B and C.

Modified the layouts of various ships from vanilla.

Separatist ships can sometimes spawn without oxygen systems past s2, in which they will use their nanomode only and have clonebays.

Ships with unique crew now spawn with the appropriate names. Thanks to Burning Cookies for doing the ground work for this already.

Reworked the abilities of various unique crew.

Reworked the Duskbringer Cruisers.

Implemented new Fed Light Cruiser and Militia Guard sprites, thanks to R4V3-0N. Also resprited the Free Mantis assault.

The prototype and militia cruisers now spawn with randomized crew.

Improved many Lost Sun hulls and redid the CoEE hulls.

The spetum can now be found in stores. Increased the price.

Improved Orchid Animations.

Resprited and reworked all of the coalition cruisers and enemies.

Moved the Suprapedal and Crapbucket to page 13.

Improved Vance's sprite.

Pleasure Pods now detect all non-genetic crew of the same species as the same option.

Reworked Spider B and C, and KoN A, B, and C.

Spider B and C now unlock like normal B/C ships, and Spider A can be unlocked from either interaction at the GAS nest.

Reworked Hektar B and C.

Changed Aug C's sprite. It no longer has the annointed.

Changed Cultist C's sprite and gimmick. It no longer has Vortigon.

Morph C no longer has OOJ.

Zoltan Hard-Light Shielding Lab no longer stacks with more Zoltan but also does not override other crew resist effects.

Removed Alkali from Scientist C.

Improved the Gatling sprite.

Removed the bonus scrap option from the emergency manual and replaced it with two new options to convert missiles and droneparts.

Changed Crystal B slightly to be a boarding ship.

Rewrote many paragon dialogues to make characters more opinionated and just to be better in general.

Merged the Anti-Virus and Counter-Virus augments.

Reworked the star ruin event to be more fair for the player. Also now gives a director instead of atomizer.

Lost Sun Commandos no longer require an enemy in the room to use their ability.

You can now only install one battery performance upgrade (additional levels didnt work anyways).

Changed the prefixes of many enemy ships.

Greatly improved the MV Node-Setter hull.

Sylvan can now sell up to 3 items in the Hektar offer.

Standard morphs can no longer copy the spider queen. They can however copy Hatchlings and Weavers separately from GAS Adults now.

The Spetum-Scanner combo can now be triggered at a lower threshold.

Rebel Crew now use unique sprites. Their ships can now sometimes spawn with medics aboard.

Improved the Orchid Scout.

Modified the Mantis B sprite and updated the Mantis miniships to use the refurbished one.

Updated the appearances of Vortigon and other cultists.

Improved the Crystal C sprite.

Targetting Jammer can now target the flagship.

You can no longer use extra prep options at the start beacon on extreme. Increased starting fuel by 8.

Modified the names of the MV Cruisers.

Improved the Rock guard sprite.

Crystal weapons now use missile launch sound effects.

Changed the colors of the Hektar Brand Attribute Modules(tm) to be more distinguishable from the Hektar Brand Status Modules(tm).

All Free Mantis ships that could spawn with medbay now spawn with clonebay instead.

Federation loot weapon is now a heavy laser mk 2.

Vagabond Stabalizer now impacts Haunt crew from the Occult Portal as well.

Sylvan B now uses a rainbow cloak.

Changed various event backgrounds.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 BALANCE:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Made most non-engi/zoltan enemies able to spawn with 5 shields late-game now.

Massively decreased max engine power for all enemies.

Removed the auto-bait event.

Many crew lab changes;
Diversification is now a 12% buff. Increased price by 10 scrap but removed the 3 fuel cost.
Buffed Slow Metabolism to a 65% suffocation immunity. Selective Metalworking now provides a 50% buff to repair and sabotage.
Crystallized Hydrogen no longer reduces health. Hardened crystals provides 25% more sabotage and reduces movement by 25% less. Geodification now provides an 85% fire resistance.
Replaced Spicy Pheromones with Observational Learning. Replaced Technophobic Rage with Fireflies.
Elastic Surface now boosts movement speed by 60%.
Chemical Proliferation now heals ghosts slower. Gouls also heal at half the speed of other ghosts.
Mobile Batteries now also has a passive DOT. Replaced Synthetic Respiration with Hazard-proof Systems. Replaced Starslinger with Rage Mode.
Massively increased the price of predatory instincts.
Lowered the damage nerf on Silk Touch.
Renamed Chambered Propulsion to Anatomical Gyroscopes and reduced movement speed debuff. Evolutionary Rebranching no longer reduces resistance. Replaced Natural Radiancy with Dextile Shells.

Vagabond abilities no longer trigger unless below a certain health threshold.

Increased the price of repairs at stores. Missiles now cost 5 scrap at stores. Greatly increased the stock of missiles and droneparts at stores.

Increased rock health to 175. Removed the extinguishing bonus. Increased crusader health to 300.

For each enemy crew present in the room Saboteurs now lose part of their sabotage bonus.

Orchids now buff heal speed by 20% as well. Reduced fire damage by 25%. Removed extinguishing debuff. Reduced Chieftain fire damage by 300% and removed extinguishing debuff.

Reworked Cognitives - they now gain massive boosts to their stats while in their auto mode.

Lowered the power of some combat augments. Combat augments now last a limited amount of time.

Emergency Generator now removes the full fuel and power cost of all combat augments.

Outcasts now get stronger for all rocks and outcasts in the room.

Medbay lvl 4 and medbots are no longer compatible with each other.

Buffed the speed of extinguishers.

Lockdown bomb now does 1 system damage and 15 crew damage, but uses one power.

Nyx and Sniper now have massive accuracy buffs. The Nyx Missiles now have hullbust, but charge 1 second slower and cost 10 more scrap.

Mares and Mare Alphas now sabotage 30% faster than other vagabonds.

Player pest drones now use 0 power.

Rebalanced various artillery systems.

Recon Drones now explode on death.

Reduced projectiles on the Carnage. Decreased cooldown by 1 second. Gave it a brand new sprite.

Enemy defense scrambler now requires the enemy hacking system to be present and powered.

The strength of the s1 exit beacon elite now scales with challenge level.

Increased the breach chance on the mining beam. Decreased power usage.

Made the sniper pierce 3 shields. Decreased cooldown by 1 second.

Titanium System Casing now also impacts mc'ed crew.

Decreased the cooldowns of the burst missiles for the player.

Obyn now has 225 health. He now passively decreases the healing speed of all other crew in the room but does not have a healing debuff himself.

Angel A now has drone control.

Greatly increased the price of the Misericorde. Increased cooldown by 1 second.

The Energy Missiles now do 3 hull damage as well as ion.

Increased the buy/sell price of the Big Ion.

Decreased the cooldown of the heal bomb by 2 seconds. Merged the two heal bombs into one weapn.

Removed status effects and increased cooldown on the Momus.

Made various nerfs/changes to Obelisk tech.

Medics now do half damage in combat, and heal themselves for 50.

Increased Nephthys cooldown by 2 seconds. Decreased fire chance by 20%.

Decreased the Rift Waker 0.5 fire chance by 40%. Increased radius by 20px.

Cyclopian Beam now only uses 2 power.

Massively decreased the cooldown of the obelisk sentinel drone. Renamed to the overwatcher.

Increased the price of the hull repair drone by 10 scrap.

Increased the time it takes the spinny stick suzerain to run away.

Increased the price of Weapon Performance Upgrades by 5 scrap. You can now only get 2 at once.

Crystal crew now have "charges" with their lockdown ability. They can only have 2 charges at once and recover one charge every jump. They no longer have the movement speed debuff but do only 80% damage in combat.

Decreased the prices of various crew at stores.

Increased the cooldown of the crystal scatter by 1 second.

Increased the Ranseur's breach chance to 100% and decreased power usage.

Ares now only uses 1 missile.

Decreased Lance cooldown by 2 seconds and increased breach and fire chance by 30%. Increased length by 10px.

Increased leech max health to 90. Ampere ability now drains a total of 30hp rather than 45.

Enemy leto no longer has any status chances, and charges 1 second slower.

The Royal Dreadnaught's artillery is no longer resistant on extreme.

Increased the Halberd cooldown by 2 seconds.

Slocknog's ability now refills on jump.

Hektar enemies can no longer spawn with bio-module missiles.

Decreased Particle Laser's fire chance. Increased cooldown by 1 second. Decreased cooldown of particle 2 by 3 seconds. Increased radius on both weapons.

Havoceizer now does 2 system damage.

Greatly reduced the duration of the lizard molt.

Lowered the reactor needed for extinguishers by 3.

Ion Chainger is now 3 power.

Increased orchid repair speed buff by 10%.

Reduced the cooldown of the salt launcher by 3 seconds. Reduced radius by 10px. Increased breach chance by 10%.

Decreased the cooldown of the Cyclopian beam by 3 seconds.

Decreased the price of Mind Control.

Merged the Neuron Preservation and Neural Strengthening lab upgrades for slugs, and added a new third primary.

Hard Light shielding now effects the Zoltan themself. However, it no longer stacks with additional Zoltan. Also has a shield effect.

The Free Mantis ability now starts charged at the beginning of the jump.

Separatists now take 20% more damage in nanomode.

Shell scientists now heal back 25 extra health. Alkali heals back 47 more health.

Increased Dessius's damage and crew heal.

Equalized the sell prices of the three starting weapons.

Spook Chaser A now starts with external lifeform scanners.

Increased the shot count of Part I and II by 1. Increased cooldown of Part II by 1 second.

Angel C now has a piercing torch.

Phase Ion MK 2 is now 2 power.

Changed Kestrel A's weapons.

Increased orchid HP buff.

The Annointed's shields now scale.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
BUG/ISSUE FIXES:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
*Thanks to Local Resources and BurningCookies for various fixes

Fixed some tpyos. (with even more additional proofreading from JerC)

Fixed reading the atlas increasing the internal sector counter.

Fixed Hektar stores not offering repairs or resources.

Finally fixed the credits showing the wrong flagship.

Fixed Angels not counting for human lab upgrades and Freddy not counting for mantis lab upgrades.

Fixed Hektar Stores not spawning the right store when inquiring about UwU points.

Fixed Electrical Insulation not working.

The Mega-Market only requires 4 coordinates due to spawn bugs.

Remade the respirator augment so it can now stack properly.

Events where your crew transforms now maintain skills and crew name.

The asteroid "enemy" is now immune to ion.

Fixed Obelisk B's artillery not firing.

Uncontrollable crew can now be selected.

Fixed the Hektar Loyalty Assurance looping forever.

Fixed Lanius having double oxygen drain speeds.

Fixed only the swarm scout being able to spawn for lanius elites.

Secret nebula sectors no longer have normal nebula fleet delay.

Fixed the Hacker unlock sometimes not triggering properly.

Fixed Heavy Energy doing system damage.

Fixed the Droppoint sometimes spawning with only 2 supply beacons.

Removed the background fleets from several events to prevent them from looping.

Fixed augmented decay being too fast.

Ancient Equalizer combat aug now works on the flagship.

Fixed the Surgeon drone toggle now working.

Obelisk Equalizer lab no longer stacks with each Ancient.

Fixed Metyunt shedding to become a worker.

Pheromones no longer impact drones.

Fixed Mortality Initiatives not working.

Fixed titanium casing not actually decreasing sabotage.

Fixed the tribal lizards basically being immortal.

Fixed a few ships still having the old ghost ids.

Fixed various crew having unintentional fire speed buffs/debuffs.

Fixed the royal arty firing normal payloads.

Moved the clone cannon menu prompt so it no longer sometimes doesn't trigger the weapon menu.

Fixed tamed pony teleport animations.

Fixed the morph unlock not having the right purple marker.

Fixed nebula empty beacons sometimes not having storage checks.

Fixed Duskbringer/Radical/Monk crew offsets.

Fixed Slocknog not being immune to stun.

Fixed the slug abductor weapon mounts.

Fixed the Knight guard having the same outcome for destruction and crew kill

Fixed the artemis glow.

Fixed the human morph.

Fixed the detective event civvy station not always spawning with the systems from the event.

Updated the Crapbucket's weapon list.
