\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 FEATURES:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Added the Retail, MFK, and another secret line of Cruisers.

Added Wentworths' and related enemies. The Auto-Fleet now pulls from Wentworths' autos.

Added the Insurgence Track, by Maddie Doktor

Boarding drones are now automatically recovered if not destroyed after combat.

Added human technitians (elite engineers).

Mind Controlled enemies can now be controlled by you.

Added the Tinfoil Array and Cerebral Overcharge internal augments.

Added the Tuco B and Eargen C renegade bosses and the corresponding Slotgun and B.S.B. loot.

Added 3 leech and 2 spectral renegade encounters.

Added Hektar Ultra-Stick Gel.

Added the Stimulant Bomb.

Added the Amp Flak drone.

Added many new dialogue lines for Leah, Renegades, and MV Rebels.

MV Rebels now have unique defeat events and text.

Added several new "good morality" options to events that were previously suggested such as the Rebel Escape pod or Slaver choice.

Added an alternative unlock method for Limit 4.

Vampweeds are now immune to shell gas.

Federation Elites now use Zoltan Shields.

You can now reject the stalement prevention event, in case it triggers while attempting a slow crew kill.

Added the spore launcher weapon class.

Alkali can now install the crew lab for free.

You can now rearange crew in the crew menu.

Added new animations to siren ships.

Added one new crewser.

Added no2 support for 2x4 rooms.

Added events_mechanical and moved power surge and similar functionality there.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 CHANGES:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Resprited and remade all Rebel Cruisers. They are now all artillery focused.

Reworked Prototype A and C.

Changed up the gimmicks of Proto-MV A, B, and C.

Resprited the Auto-Enforcer.

Merged the Swarm and Burst missile lines.

The Ancient Activator is now a hidden augment.

Reorganized several ship pages.

Resprited several weapons.

Resprited the Auto-Instigator, thanks to R4.

Made some pre-emptive changes to notoriety text and mechanics.

Ruins now have Obelisk wrecks in the background.

Reduced the number of crew that spawn on Legion ships. However, they now spawn with malforms instead of rebel crew.

Removed elite Fed's shields entirelly and gave it a Zoltan shield.

Modified Shell B to now have vampweeds and a spore launcher. This gimmick will later be moved to a different ship.

Emergency manual's payload option no longer thirds enemy power, but rather does 4 damage to the system and their hull, as well as permanently limiting the system by 1 bar.

Killing yourself at the suicide moon event now unlocks the 7 Sins.

Warlord and Lost Sun guards now drop weapons on crew kill.

The damaged auto ship now has an extra reward outcome for an augment. Destroying it pre-emptively now gives a low standard reward.

Rock ships can now use kernel weapons.

The laser beam now has a unique sprite.

Changed the Rebel loot weapon to a charge 2.

Defending Turban now adds 1 fleet boost rather than 2.

Added some Paladin and Knight options at guards.

TRZ, nano Separatists and a certain invader species are now immune to mind control.

The Engi C Renegade is now capped at 4 (LVL8) shields.

The water planet cannon now plays a certain foreign weapon sound when it hits you.

Vanilla ships no longer have locked augments.

(non-boss) Renegades now have a special list of crew they load from.

The non-spider crew on brood ships are now randomized.

Renamed mini flak to flak 1, and increased the mark of all other flaks.

Bolin now gives 1 fleet boost for listening to him plus one for every time you repeat.

Renamed Radicals to Martyrs.

Converting Bean Sylvan back to normal gives you a different sylvan variant from the default.

Both nexus entrance surrender events repair your hull.

The MFK Flagship's AI mode now only activates after all of the crew are dead.

Normal rebel sectors now only have a 50% chance to spawn the Jerry event.

Vagabond enemy crew distribution is now random.

Malform can now use a Bishop to morph into a Suzerain.

Pacifier was changed from 3 shots to 1 shot with perfect accuracy. It also now has sound and visual feedback.

Cultists, Lost Suns and Clansmen now refill their ability on jump.

Obelisk Autos now provide more standard rewards on defeat.

Updated the Black Market Smuggler station to propose newer items, and prevent dupes.

Renamed all unique crew ships to crewsers.

Updated the Discord Rich Presence icon.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 BALANCE:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Modified the stats (most notably power) of certain enemy weapons.

Increased scrap gains slightly.

ASB no longer does crew damage or stun.

Reworked the way many anti-bio weapons work. They now have higher breach chances, generally pierce some shields, and most notably provide debuffs to targeted enemy crew.

Reworked the clone cannon. It now temporarily spawns the selected crew when it hits.

Removed ion bombs from enemies.

Removed fire bombs from many enemies. Also increased cooldown for those that do use it.

Hektar enemies can no longer use hull mod missiles.

Increased the price of chemicle proliferation by 5 scrap.

--LASERS--

Removed Nevermiss. Sniper no longer spawns in stores and has been renamed to Nevermiss. The Guild Renegade boss now drops the sniper. Increased cooldown by 2s. Increased shield pierce to 10.

Increased the cooldown of charge laser by .5s.

Decreased the cooldown of charge laser mk 2 to 4s.

Increased the cooldown of the sniper by 2 seconds.

Reworked the neural laser heavily.

Increased light laser 1 breach chance by 20%. Decreased the cooldown by 1 second.

Decreased hull laser mk 2 and 3's cooldown by 1 second. Increased breach chance on both by 20%.

Chain Hull Smasher now chains an extra .5s per shot.

Decreased the power cost of charge laser 2 and 3.

Reduced the cooldown of the charge laser mk 3 by .25 seconds.

Decreased laser chainger cooldown to 7.5. Chain effect now reduces cooldown by 1.5s per volley.

Increased the price of the conservative laser by 20 scrap. Removed the fire chance.

Increased the pierce of the anti-bio laser by 1. Increased breach chance by 70%. Decreased cooldown by 2 seconds. Decreased crew damage by 15.

Decreased cooldown of frost charger by 1.

Increased breach chance of light laser charger by 20%.

The rift-waker and god slayer now have greatly reduced intermediate shot delays.

--FLAK--

Increased flak 1 (mini flak) cooldown by 2 seconds. Increased price by 10 scrap.

Decreased all mainline flak radius by 5px.

Decreased the price of chain flak by 20.

Reduced the radius of pre-flak by 25px.

Increased Toxic Flak's breach chance by 10%. Increased crew damage by 15.

Charge flak now charges the appropriate amount of shots and fires them all at once.

Decreased radius of steel flak by 5px. Decreased cooldown by 3s.

Decreased radius of multiplier by 5px. Decreased cooldown by .5s.

--BOMBS--

Most bombs now have a +30% accuracy modifier except recycler bomb. (payloads and cluster are unaffected)

Removed chain bomb.

Decreased small bomb cooldown by 1s.

Decreased breach bomb cooldown by 1s. Decreased price by 5 scrap.

Decreased conservative bomb's cooldown by 2 seconds. Decreased price by 5 scrap.

Increased lockdown bomb's breach chance by 30%. Increased fire chance by 10%.

Increased fire bomb's crew damage by 15. Reduced cooldown by 2 seconds.

Reworked Stun Bomb considerably to act more as a heavy ion bomb.

Decreased ion bomb cooldown by 4 seconds.

Increased Anti-Bio Bomb's crew damage by 30. Increased breach chance by 70%.

Heal Bomb now also grants health regeneration temporarily but heals less per bomb. Only fires one shot.

Increased Subtracter's crew damage by 75.

Decreased Sustainer's breach chance by 10%.

--MISSILES--

Increased the Asclepius's bio damage by 15.

Increased stun duration by 3s.

Removed the accuracy from Momus. Increased cooldown by 2 seconds and price by 10 scrap. Increased rarity to 5.

Decreased cooldown of the nightshade by 2s. Increased accuracy by 10%.

--KERNELS--

Increased replication of all normal kernels to 35. Increased replication of all elite kernels to 65.

Enemy kernels no longer have replication chances.

Reduced Kernel 1's cooldown by 2s.

Increased Kernel 2's shot count by 1. Increased cooldown by 2.

Removed Anti-Hull Kernel.

Added hullbust to the Heavy Kernel. Increased cooldown by 1.

Decreased initial cooldown of chain kernel by 1 second.

Decreased cooldown of charge kernel by 1s. Decreased power usage by 1.

Reduced radius of the vinelauncher by 10px. Increased replication chance to 65%.

--BEAMS--

Decreased pre-emptive torch length again and increased rarity. Reduced Pre-Torch swipe speed by 4.

Decreased halberd cooldown by 2 seconds. Increased length slightly.

Reduced scythe swipe speed to the minimum to not "miss". Reduced cooldown by 1 second.

Decreased Torch Beam's rarity. Decreased cooldown by 1 second.

Glaive and Voulge now both have an additional 10% fire chance.

Decreased pike cooldown by 1 second. Added a 10% breach chance.

Decreased the power usage of the Suyari by 1. Decreased the price by 10 scrap. Decreased cooldown by 1s.

Increased the breach chance of both adaptive beams by 20%.

Removed the 10% fire chance from pike 2. Increased breach chance by 10%. Decreased power by 1.

Increaded mining beam cooldown by 1 second. Decreased length by 15px. Increased power by 1.

Increased Guisarme length by 10px.

Increased the Faucon, Pelta, and Corbin beams' breach chance by 50%. Increased swipe speed by 10. Decreased price by 5 scrap. Added 1 shield pierce.

Increased Partisan's stun by 3 seconds. Increased pierce by 1.

Reduced Zoltan Deleter's crew damage to 45. Reduced power by 1. It now instantly kills all zoltans it hits.

--FOCUS--

Reworked the Cinquedea to be cooldown based.

Increased Anelace's breach chance by 90%.

--IONS--

Ion Pinpoints (pre-ion, big ion, equalizer) now deal normal amounts of ion damage and are more consistent. Removed pre-emptive ion's stun.

Decreased ion stunner cooldown by 1 second, increased stun by 2 seconds.

Decreased ion stunner mk 2's price by 20 scrap. Decreased cooldown by 1 second.

Increased the cooldown of heavy stunner by 1 second. Increased stun by 5 seconds.

Decreased the cooldown of stun charger by 1.5 seconds. Decreased stun duration by 2s.

Phasers now pierce all shields.

Increased trion's radius to 60px, increased cooldown by 2 seconds, increased shot count by 1.

Decreased the price of big ion by 30. Removed the stun chance (it didnt need it).

Decreased the price of ion chainger by 25. Decreased cooldown by 1.

--ENERGY--

Decreased cooldown of the heavy energy by 1.5s. Decreased price by 5 scrap.

--CRYSTALS--

Increased the damage of heavy crystal 2 by 1. Increased cooldown by 2s.

Reduced Crystal Stunner's cooldown by 8s. Decreased shot count by 1. Changed stun duration to 10s. Increased breach chance by 20%. Decreased cost by 10 scrap.

Reduced the cooldown of charge crystal by .5s.

Removed all crew damage from the salt launcher, but it now applies salt DoT.

--PARTICLES--

Increased the cooldown of part 1 by 1 second.

Increased cooldown of particle missiles by 1s.

Decreased particle beam's cooldown by 1s.

--MINELAUNCHERS--

Reduced Geb radius by 10px. Increased fire chance by 10%.

Reduced Osiris radius by 10px. Increased fire chance by 10%.

Reduced Ra radius by 10px. Increased fire chance by 10%.

Reduced Sobek radius by 15px. Reduced cooldown by 2s. Reduced price by 10 scrap.

Increased Anubis crew damage by 30. Decreased cooldown by 2s. Reduced radius by 10px.

Reduced Percentage's radius by 5px. Increased stun chance by 50%.

Increased onslaught's cooldown by 2s. Increased radius by 10px.

--DRONES--

Increased recon drone's health to 50. Damage taken modifier changes between defense and boarding mode. Increased movement speed by .5

Greatly increased the length of beam drone swipes.

Greatly reduced enemy pest drone speed. Reworked toggle modes to RAD and Debuff.

Slightly increased amphi-drone's movement (combat) and reload (defense) speed.

Conservative drone now has a laser and beam toggle.

Assault drone now has a minor accuracy boost in pierce mode.

Reduced Guardian 2's cooldown by 100 MS.

Increased speed on all Amp Ion levels.

Increased repair drone repair speed to 2.5x. Increased health by 15.

Reworked and resprited the yinyang drone.

Greatly increased the beam length of the uplifted drone.

Renamed Guillotine Drone to Fauchard Drone. Greatly increased beam length. Increased bio damage by 15.

--AUGMENTS--

Slug Repair Gel now provides damage resistance in empty rooms, and provides a cheaper hull repair option at empty beacons.

Increased the resist chance of locked rock hull armor by 3% and added an option to ram the enemy ship.

Mantis Pheromones now scale strength based on life support. Reworked specific stat boosts on all 3 main types of pheromones.

Greenhouse now lets you recover 1 fuel every sector jump.

Store beacon now costs 15 less scrap.

Gold plating now gives slightly more scrap.

--CREW--

Increased the medic cooldown by 5 seconds.

Increased the liberator sabotage buff by 15%.

Increased crusader movement speed slightly.

Irwin's debuff now applies to crew even if they leave the room for the duration of his ability.

Modified Obyn's ability. Along with having its own graphic, also damages allied crew less and slug crew more. Increased health by 25.

Reworked Osmians entirely. They now spawn in additional temporary holographic crew to assist you.

Increased KoN max health. They can now always ignore doors.

Ampere ability only drains 2 power bars now, but has no health loss. Reduces movement speed slightly instead. Reduced stun multiplier by .25. Increased passive regen by .6hp/s.

Reduced Peacekeeper HP to 65. Gave them 35% combat damage resistance.

Sentinels can now use 8 lockdown charges and recover 4 charges per jump.

Turzil now repairs at x0.4 speed.

Kaz's base combat damage is now 2.5, crew debuff is 15%.

Alkram now absorbs stun from allied leech crew as well. He also now drains power on his own. Increased max health to 100.

Increased Tony Sr.'s health by 25. Increased power drain to 2.

Replaced Guntput's ability with an auto-cast healing burst.

Metyunt provides 25% more fire resistance. Now moves at x1.5 speed.

--SHIPS--

The Reaper Elite cruiser now has a teleporter.

Increased the cloaking on Pleasure B by 1.

Added another outcast to Tuco's Crewser.

Added a mini beam to SSLG B.

Removed mind control from Hive A. Added mind control to Free Mantis A. Removed Free Mantis A's weapons, added another free mantis crew. Added a conservative bomb to Hive A.

Added Overfield and replaced the ion field on the Osmian Cruisers with it.

Increased piloting and engines on dusk C to 2.

Added the Chainger to Free Mantis C.

Added an Ion Barrage Mk 1 to the MV Rebel cruiser.

Added a Sobek to Prototype B.

Swapped Bishop C's ion bomb for a stun bomb. Added battery.

Increased the starting shield power of the guild cruiser type B.

All Limits can now get max sensors.

--SYSTEMS--

Removed the ability to purchase Medbay and Clonebay lvl 4 on most ships.

--BOSSES--

Buffed Sylvan. He now has Zoltan Bypass, one extra KoN crew, and 2 of his 6 burst lasers fires slight faster.

Reduced the maximum artillery power on both Obelisk dreadnaughts to 4.

Buffed Coalition Cealaformer boss. Nerfed the Coalition Cruiser boss.

The Lanius Renegade Boss can no longer get 5 shields on normal or challenge.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
BUG/ISSUE FIXES:
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

Fixed some tpyos.

Fixed various cloaks.

Fixed the cryo chambers not working.

Fixed the last stand out of time reroute.

Fixed the slave grave robbing event.

Fixed the Militia hangar event.

Fixed the MFK Flagship countdown still going after being defeated.

Fixed the training event not recalling boarders.

Fixed some Coalition Elites still spawning with sentinels.

Fixed energy weapons repairing shields if damaged when hitting the bubble.

Fixed R.U.E.S. unlock. Also standardized to match other elites.

Made it clear on the Slipstream description that MV is a roguelike, and not a rougelike.

Changed the wording display of the Accuracy stat.

Changed the text of Teamwork Neurons and Webbing to make it more clear that it stacks.

Fixed the missing ability sound for Rangers/Knights.

You can now safely proceed with warps without losing your boarders (Wither, Ruwen, boarded Brood ship in the Kasparov quest).

Removed the "MK" disclaimer on items that didn't need it (Maintenance drone, etc)

Fixed the Rebel in Ion storm not granting combat check.

The non-Orbiter variants at the Harmony link now have their extra systems properly deactivated at first.

Fixed the Pleasure Pods.

Fixed the projectile speed of the Overwatcher, Eris and Asclepius.

Removed the extra system buffers of some bosses.

You can no longer mind control drones spawned by events.

Fixed instances of ships being hostile when they shouldn't.

Fixed Outcasts having 75% stun res instead of 50%.

Fixed Malform Saboteur not recharging ability on jump like its mimicked form.

Removed the erroneous mention of Spider Queen repairing better than other spiders.

Changed the text of non-Alpha Vagabonds that implied their abilities were less potent than Alphas when it isn't the case. (Alphas still charge faster)

Fixed some events not being unique when they should.

The Orchid slaver won't offer non-Orchid crew on surrender to match the text.

Fixed Leah's "repair drones" costing 0 power.

Fixed many missing or inconsistent ship icons for enemies.

Shortened the description of Mine Launchers to hopefully reduce the info box going off-screen.

Callie math problems now correctly loop throughout the fight.

Fixed guard cloak options not triggering.

Fixed Dessius not triggering his ability when the enemy ship is neutral but enemy boarders are on your ship.

Fixed Sylvan spawning the wrong ship when returning to him after attacking him.

Fixed many unique crew not triggering the paragon talk option.

Fixed the Sylvans losing skills when cloned.

Fixed the stats of several clone cannons.

Fixed remaining technopath teleport anims.

Fixed flagship unlock.

You can no longer turn in Alkali if you dont have him.

Fixed recon drones triggering repair drone blue options.

Irwin now triggers slug blue options.

Fixed the Hacker distress trap event.

Fixed the minelauncher checks.

Xenophobia no longer impacts drones.

Fixed the Lost Sun Renegade not being able to power all of its weapons.

Fixed coomer and tommy being unaffected by engineer/human labs and xenophobia.